<b>Application Description</b>
<br>
Web Application monitors a patient who is under Intensive care unit of the hospital. It will store the readings of the specific equipments of the patient and would help the doctor to understand the behaviour. Also, in case of any emergency it will give an alert to the doctor in the form of email, if any reading is above certain threshold value. Equipments vary with the room type. Equipments are specific to the medical condition, patient is suffering with. As soon as a patient is admitted to an ICU (Intensive Care Unit), they would be admitted to a specific room with the equipments based on their illness. The room will have its own equipments, that record the readings at regular intervals. Patient has certain doctors assigned to them, doctors can remotely monitor their patients.

Patient care and monitoring Application manage data related to patients, hospital employees, treatment, bills, and appointments. It has the data model of a hospital website where a patient and employee make an account through register page and view their details. Here, patient can view his treatment, assigned doctor, bill payment, doctors available and his health detail. Similarly, employee can view and edit his detail, can also search the details of other doctors informed by patients, information of patients being treated by him.

Each patient and employee registers to create an account, which has 1 email, and password. All the basic details of a user like First Name, Last Name, Address, City, and Zip is stored in the database. When the user submits the login form, we query the patient and employee table based on user type to retrieve their record, so we can verify that their password matches the hashed value stored in database and related page appear dynamically.

In Employee login, the employee can search the patients attended by him. He can look up their patient details. On show button click, an employee will also retrieve the patient admit date, discharge date, treatment type and number of days. Here, the join query also present the patients whose reading values are higher than threshold value. If the value is greater than threshold value than an email alert will be send to main doctor.

Moreover, After login, the employee and patient can search the doctors based on Department, First name, Last name, Zip Code, City, State. When an employee is signed in, he will enter the patient id whom he attended. On submitting the id, a query will run that will update the billing cost as “dues” in patient table by adding that particular doctor cost to pending dues. This module will also inform about the employee details who attended that patient. The billing module is available after patient login.

The total bill of the patient can be calculated from a join query that will run and give the billing cost of patient based on room charges, treatment charges, visit charges and doctor charges. 
 
 
 <b>Databases</b>
 </br>
 In web application we have two types of databases i.e Operational database (MySQl) and Analytical Database (MySQL). We have used two health datasets in web application, one is XML based and other is JSON based stored in mongoDB. This represent the multiple sources of database. We used php, mysql and apache to make a web app that drives operational data interactions and mongoDb, xml, and json data for analytical interactions. Php pages include html forms for input, and  html tables for displaying tabular output data, such as search results of find a doctor module. All php pages use php’s PDO module for database interaction, make use of prepared sql statements and bound parameters to avoid sql injection. We also used database transactions to make sure that all operations function atomically. It helps in the way that if an error occurs in the middle of a series of sql statements, database wouldn’t be left in an inconsistent state.
 
<b>Data Sources</b>
<br>
We didn't get an actual dataset that fully satisfies our web application data requirements. So, we have used different datasets and obtained the relevant data related to our application. We extracted data related to treatment and description of treatment from Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services https://www.cms.gov. We generated patient and employee details using data generation tool at mockaroo.com. These details include FirstName, LastName, Email, StreetAddress, Zipcode, City and State. We used the mysql procedure to cleanse the data and populate the tables. We also wrote  scripts to further cleanse the data. While, we obtained our XML and JSON data from Catalog.data.gov and Data.cms.gov.

